{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue194;\red146\green26\blue32;\red251\green0\blue7;
\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19620\viewh12700\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
What does metadata do in html?\
\
Metadata is the data information. It is not displayed on the page and web browser, because it is in the <head> element. Metadata describes data in the document. \
\
When do you use metadata in html?\
\
You can use metadata in html to describe data without displaying it on the page and web browser. Information can include author, description, keywords, and viewport.\
\
\
The following code from w3schools.com show the examples of <meta> tags.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf2 <\cf3 head\cf2 >\cf0 \
\'a0 \cf2 <\cf3 meta\cf4  charset\cf2 ="UTF-8">\cf0 \
\'a0 \cf2 <\cf3 meta\cf4  name\cf2 ="description"\cf4  content\cf2 ="Free Web tutorials">\cf0 \
\'a0 \cf2 <\cf3 meta\cf4  name\cf2 ="keywords"\cf4  content\cf2 ="HTML,CSS,XML,JavaScript">\cf0 \
\'a0 \cf2 <\cf3 meta\cf4  name\cf2 ="author"\cf4  content\cf2 ="John Doe">\cf0 \
\'a0 \cf2 <\cf3 meta\cf4  name\cf2 ="viewport"\cf4  content\cf2 ="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">\cf0 \
\cf2 <\cf3 /head\cf2 >\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
A few examples to explain the purpose of metadata:\
\
When using metadata to describe the author, it is helpful when the viewer of the code may want to contact the author of the page. \
\
When describing description, it can help the page appear in more search engine results, using SEO. \
\
Use 2 examples of URL. \
\
1. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.w3schools.com/html/example_withviewport.htm"}}{\fldrslt https://www.w3schools.com/html/example_withviewport.htm}} \
\
When you search inspect in Google Developer Tools, you can find the following code in the <head> element. This page uses the metadata for viewport, so the page can be mobile friendly. \
\
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"> \
\
2. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://generalassemb.ly/"}}{\fldrslt https://generalassemb.ly/}} \
\
In inspect, the following metadata is used to specify character\'92s document encoding to prevent conflicts in different web browsers. utf-8
\f2 \cf5 \cb6 \'a0is a universal character set that includes characters from any human language. 
\f0 \cf0 \cb1 \
\
<meta charset="utf-8"> }